- [Instructor] In this lesson we're going to take a look
at some more advanced usage of data binding
within JSF Backing Beans.
To help us out I pre-positioned a couple things.
First you'll notice the catalog item object.
It's just a POJO that contains all the information
for a catalog item.
So you see several fields here
and then we have a constructor that we can use
to create an instance of a catalog item.
Now over on the form.xhtml file
I've basically created a form that has controls
which correspond with each of the fields
in the catalog item POJO.
These elements were created
using the HTML tag library within JSF.
So what we can do to get started is navigate
over to our catalog item form Backing Bean.
And what we need to do is switch that Bean over
to be session scoped.
And this will cause information to persist
across different HTTP requests for particular users.
Now anytime we use session scope
we need to make sure our Bean implements
the Serializable interface, so let's go ahead and do that.
And then I'm going to remove all of the code
within this class.
Because we're going to create an instance of a catalog item.
I'll name that instance, item.
And we'll use the new operator
and the constructor to create it.
And then we're going to create a list of catalog items.
And that list is going to be instantiated
using an array list.
And basically what we have here
is a catalog item that we're going to bind the form to
and then our catalog, which will contain all the items,
so when we do create a new item with the form
we're going to add it to this list.
Let me create accessors for both of these.
And then we'll go ahead and save that Bean.
And then navigate over to our form.
So we have the catalog item object on our Bean,
we can now go ahead and bind to it.
We'll get some help here from the IDE,
you'll notice we can traverse into the item field
on that Bean and select the name field within the item.
I'm just going to copy that and then we'll start
binding all of our other fields.
So we can bind the manufacturer.
We have a new field available date.
So if we take a quick look over at our catalog item,
you'll see this is a type local date from Java 8.
That's going to come into play here in a little bit.
But first we'll just do the binding.
And then we'll move on and bind our text area
for our description.
Okay, so now we have those bindings in place,
let's talk about some other things that we need to consider.
So first you'll notice that we have the name field,
and it's really important that we get the name right
because this is what a customer is going to see.
So to help us with that we can use the validateRegex tag
within the Facelets tag library.
And this is really powerful because it allows us
to specify a Regex.
And that Regex will be used to validate input
provided by the end user.
So I'm just going to make an alphanumeric Regex
that allows spaces.
And then the next thing we're going to do,
you'll notice there's an ID on this input text.
We can grab that ID and leverage another tag
within the HTML tag library, and that tag is message.
And if we define the for attribute
and place that ID within the value for that for attribute,
what will happen is any validation issues
will be displayed within this message element
for the product name.
Now something else we have to consider is that
for our available date control,
our user's just going to enter a string.
How does that string get converted over
to an actual date?
Well you probably guessed,
within JSF there is support for that conversion,
so we an look at the Facelets tag library
and there's the ConvertDateTime tag.
And this allows us to specify the type
we would like to convert to, as well as a pattern.
So in this case we're going to have
the user enter the date in a two digit date,
two digit month, and a four digit year format.
Okay.
So we have our form controls bound to the catalog item
within our Backing Bean.
Let's turn our attention to the command button now.
So the command button, we need to specify
the action attribute.
Instead of just binding this attribute
to a static Facelet it will navigate to next,
we're going to go back to our Backing Bean
and define a new method.
And this method's going to return a string.
I'll name the method, addItem.
And then we can return a string, it will be list,
and that's going to be the name of the Facelet
that we'll navigate to once this method's logic is executed.
And then we're going to add a parameter here.
It's faces-redirect, and we're going to set that to true.
And that will cause the navigation to be performed
via a redirect.
Now we're just going to start to create our catalog item.
To do that I'm going to create an ID,
basically by incrementing the size of the collection by one.
And then we can grab our collection, invoke its add method.
And then use the catalog item constructor
to create our new catalog item.
Now remember all the form controls
are bound to the catalog item,
so we can just start accessing those fields
in order to supply the different arguments
to our constructor.
There we get the description.
And then finally we'll get the available date
format or class.
And then to help us out I'm going to stream
the collection using the forEach method.
And for each item we're just going to print out
the item after we invoke the toString method.
So we can kind of see what's in that collection.
Okay, so we're going to save everything.
And then one final thing we'll need to do
if we navigate over to our list,
you'll see that our binding here is no longer valid,
so let's just point to the name field on the item
which is on our Backing Bean.
And then we'll go back to our form,
and we'll bind to our action on the Bean.
Okay, so we should be good to go.
I'm going to then start the application.
Let's first make sure our servers are ready.
Yep, it's stopped.
Now we can go to run as, run on server.
Okay here we see the application starting.
And then I'm just going to display our console.
I'll actually clear it out and maximize it,
that way we can see some of this output.
So there's our form.
Let's first just enter an invalid value.
And you'll notice that our validation message displays.
And now let's go ahead, we'll enter a real value, gloves.
We'll say awesome gloves.
And then we can leave our date.
And then we can say these are awesome gloves.
We'll create this new item and there you can see
we navigate over to our list page, we display the name.
And if we take a look within our console output,
there you can see the output from our Backing Bean
when we invoke that method.
So looking at advanced use case here with Backing Beans
should give you a good overview
of how to construct those for your JSF applications.